Team: Discord Dragons

    Members: Dana, Kevin, Max, Swamik

    Project: 1D - Post-Mortem
       Github: https://github.com/Kayala47/SDEV-KEKW/blob/master/post_mortem_1.txt
       Minutes: https://github.com/Kayala47/SDEV-KEKW/blob/master/minutes.txt
       Management Plan: https://github.com/Kayala47/SDEV-KEKW/blob/master/management_1a.txt

       primary author: Kevin, Dana, Swamik


Our team worked on developing a concept and requirements for a large scale project to work on for this semester, and possibly onwards. After a short time of debating, 
we settled on a table-top role play game (TTRPG) ‘bot’ for Discord, a multi-use free messaging and VoIP application. Our brainstorming session was sparked by an initial
idea of working on something related to Natural Language Processing (NLP). Since another member had previously worked on a map generation tool for Dungeons & Dragons that 
still required the NLP aspect to be implemented, we decided to look into the possibility of a project that catered to the larger TTRPG community. While brainstorming, we managed 
to stay laser focused, picking our theme fairly quickly. We realized one of the most popular tools that current TTRPG players are using to connect with their groups during this 
pandemic is Discord, and decided that creating a ‘bot’ might be a fruitful endeavor. From the get-go, we had decided to work with Discord because that is where we saw a niche we 
could fill. We also used Discord for our own internal planning. We set up a text channel for just about every activity we needed done, including things like meeting summaries and 
research resources that we wanted to share with the rest of the team. Using our prior knowledge about our potential users, with most of our team having played Dungeons & Dragons 
in the past, we were able to come up with reasonable preliminary requirements within our first meeting. Looking back, we’re very happy with the speed and enthusiasm with which we 
generated our concept, however in the future we might be inclined to explore other good ideas before settling too quickly.

Moving forward, we began conducting research on existing Discord ‘bots’ that cater to our user classes, which we determined to be TTRPG players, game organizers (or game masters), 
and individuals hoping to learn more about the game. Based on our prior experience playing the game remotely and through our research, we were able to find multiple competitors to 
our product that offered similar core functionality. This gave us an idea for how feasible our project would be to build, and what functions might make it stand out. To test these 
‘bots’ for ourselves to get a feel for what we might want to create, we invited them to our Discord server. This allowed us to see for ourselves what worked and what didn’t work, 
and understand which functionalities were implemented well, and which were missing altogether. In addition, Kevin created a post which he submitted to Reddit, an online forum, to 
gather more information from other Dungeons & Dragons players and game masters about what they would like to see in a Discord ‘bot’ for remote gaming. The post had quite a lot of 
engagement, with about 100 ‘upvotes’ and 20 unique comments. Through the responses to this post, we were able to get a better understanding of reasonable preliminary requirements, 
and gave us ideas for possible features to implement that we hadn’t thought of before. Had we had more time, we might have done more research into lesser known markets that could 
also potentially benefit from the ‘bot’ by polling online forums.

While the online forum gave us a wide overview on what our product needed to be, we still needed to gather more information from potential users. The best way to get uncontaminated 
information from potential users is to conduct elicitation interviews. We were really excited to talk live with people that are excited about our product. Because we did not want to 
itch our idea to the interviewees, our concept presentation provided an overview on what Discord was and the problems that we were trying to solve: a way for TTRPG players to connect 
remotely, and provide a clutter free environment to play TTRPGs. Prior to the elicitation, we all wrote some key questions that we needed to ask the people we were interviewing. 
After writing our interview questions, we proofread the questions to make sure that we did not have any leading questions, as we did not want to contaminate the panel. During the 
elicitation, we tried our best to not pitch our concept. We wanted to make sure that the interviewees came to their own conclusions for the requirements of the bot. Our elicitation 
went really well because we could get the interviewees excited about our product and why it was necessary.

Some things could have been improved in this process. During the elicitation, key points and concerns were brought up that we did not address in the elicitation planning. In the 
planning process, we should have come up with more bullet points on things that we want to address with the interviewees. During the elicitation, our scribe had trouble organizing the 
notes. The notes taken during the elicitation were not organized and had to be put in a readable format after the meeting. However, once they were compiled, the notes proved to be 
very helpful during the further steps in Phase 1.

After the elicitation meeting, we started to condense the feedback that we received from the interviewees. Our first goal was to establish the priority of the features that were 
mentioned in the meeting. We came together as a group and discussed what had the highest priority in development vs. what would be nice to have. After discussing the priority, we 
started to look at the difficulty of each feature. These things are good to address early in the process to save time later during the development process. After the discussion, 
one person was assigned to write up the final analysis. Overall, we thought that we did a thorough job on analyzing the results, but we should have had more detail in the report 
for uninformed readers. Because our teacher is well versed with TTRPGs, small details were left out for consciousness, but when writing reports, we need to make sure to add enough 
detail so that uninformed readers can have the same experience.

When it came to writing the final proposal, we realized it would be difficult for all of us to try writing it together and make it sound seamless. Instead, one of us took lead in 
drafting the proposal. We then reconvened later on to pitch in edits and discuss what revisions should be made. Since the final proposal is a culmination of all of our previous work 
and research, it was pertinent that our prior write-ups were easily accessible and organized, which they were. This made finding information easier. While editing the proposal, we used 
the Google Docs “suggesting” feature to add and change sections in such a way that we could discuss the revisions before committing them. This made collaborating on the proposal easier as well.

Overall, the team did a good job at staying on task during this part of the project. Part of this was due to our meeting summaries. After our requirements elicitation, as well as after 
every meeting, Dana posted a meeting summary that included action items, and we were responsible for finishing the ones assigned to us by the next time we met. This helped keep us on 
track much more than the Management Plan we devised earlier, which we used more as a guideline than as a defined schedule. One of the things we could do differently in the future is keep 
a closer eye on the management plan, and use that as a more definitive schedule. This would enable us to have more of a bird’s eye view of the situation. As it stands, we were able to 
keep on task pretty well, but there were some close calls that could have been avoided otherwise.



    