Team: Discord Dragons
    Members: Dana, Kevin, Max, Swamik
    Project: 2B.1 Review Notes 
    Primary Author: Swamik
    Slip Days: 0
Notes Taken for Team Dewbed
Notes are separated by the sections that they outlined in their architecture report 


1. How Introspective Spotify Works 
   1. From the description, I am not too sure if the music from spotify is being played through a voice channel or are the users just listening to music from their own respective devices 
   2. Unique feature not present in other music bots is that your bot will provide specific information about the user 
   3. Testing the bot text response in chat was a good initial step to check the feasibility, but if you are planning to play music through discord, I think you should have also prototyped the bot joining a voice channel
      1. The music from spotify needs to be played through the bot 
2. Structure 
   1. Major classes 
      1. I think you guys have a solid understanding of what major components need to get done, but there might be some problems with your approach 
      2. Since it was not specifically said, based on your report, it looks like you guys are planning to do a bottom-up approach? 
         1. I am not certain about your groups experience with discord bots, but if there is limited experience, connecting the different modules on the way up will be difficult 
         2. I do not see the justification for a bottom-up architecture or any architecture in general . . . 
   2. Data Design 
      1. I like the idea of using 2 databases but I do not think you will need to use both 
         1. I do not think you need to store the login information in your own database, spotify already has that info: you can just link the spotify account to the app and not have to worry about storing and security 
         2. You can just get users to sign in through spotify and not store their login info: users will feel safer and you will need to store less 
3. Commands 
   1. Music theory/ Music History Commands 
      1. I think the commands look good 
      2. I do not know if the group will be able to finish all the commands listed in both but from a product perspective, some commands are more important than others 
         1. Choosing to do the commands that users will most likely use more first will be beneficial
            1. For example, I think that more people will use the commands in music history rather than the commands in music theory. This is assuming that you are trying to make the app for a typical spotify user. If the target audience is different than what I understood, ingor this comment   
   2. Synchronous Listening Commands 
      1. These are pretty standard listening bot commands 
      2. I think you guys planned this well 
   3. Spotify Wrapped 
      1. I think that this is a really cool feature not present in other apps 
      2. The commands in this section require you to access data from multiple users and analyze that data 
      3. The algorithm mentioned will probably not be as simple as envisioned
      4. Also analyzing that data will probably require a DBMS, which then will have problems on its own 
4. General Comments and Concerns 
   1. I think that this app is a cool feature that a specific niche of people will enjoy 
   2. The document was well structured and easy to understand
   3. I liked how every major component was organized and well described 
   4. General Concerns about the App
      1. In discord there are already a lot of music bots that allow users to synchronously listen to music with their friends on discord. There is no login process and users do not need to be a paid subscriber of some music service. I do not know if people will opt to use your app vs another app that doesn't require a login or a subscription. 
      2. For the listening synchronization, Spotify already has a feature called “Group Session” which has the same functionality as your synchronous listening. It will be difficult to compete with spotify for that feature 
      3. I think that the most distinguishing feature of this app is the music theory and music history features. From reading the document, I am not certain about what the main functionality of this app is supposed to be, but I believe you should focus on the theory/ history rather than the synchronous listening. Targeting this app to those specific users might have a better chance of success as it provides the user with information that they cannot access easily from other apps.