Component Design Specification - Compendium Lookup

Team: Discord Dragons
    Members: Dana, Kevin, Max, Swamik
    Project: 3E: Specifications 
    Primary Author: Kevin
    Slip Days: 0

PURPOSE:

The purpose of this module is to allow our users to access a wider variety of 
information about the game. They will be able to use this feature to look up 
salient facts about the game rules and mechanics without having to pay for 
the extra features. 

We'll be making use of the fact that the Dungeons and Dragons community is 
full of extremely prolific writers and content creators. There is a very 
complete wiki at: http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/ that we can leverage. It is full
of all the published rules and even lots of user-created content. 

PUBLIC METHODS:

Function search(String[] input)
    
    inputs: An array of strings, in the following order:
        - input[0] = one of "class", "spell", "race" "background", "feat"
        any strings other those (or very similar variants) that will cause a failure *
        - input[1:] = the series of words describing the ruleset searched by the user.
        These inputs should be merged to form one string that will be used for the URL
        of the page containing the necessary information.

    purpose: this function will call the relevant child function (detailed in the Private
    Methods section). The purpose of this separation is to create a facade for the Discord
    bot to use, which will allow users to learn fewer commands. 
    
    output: the result of the relevant child function call. This function will create an
    embed with the information from the child function, or will return an error if the information
    couldn't be found

    logic: this function will first attempt to get results from the 5e api. On a success, will 
    simply return that information. On a failure, it will call one of the child functions to 
    retrieve that information using a web scraper. 

    example usage: a user attempting to search for the "Magic Missile" spell will type "!search
    spell magic missile". This function will first make sure that input[0] is valid, else run step 
    distance on it to see if it could be a misspelling of any of the valid inputs. If it is either 
    the exact spelling or within two letters of a valid input, it will first call the 5e api, then
    call the relevant child function (searchSpell in this case) if the response is a failure. Using 
    the string it receives from the child function, it will create an embed for the Discord bot 
    with the following information:

    --------------------------------------
    | Casting Time: 1 action              |
    | Range: 120 feet                     |
    | Components: V, S                    |
    | Duration: Instantaneous             | 
    | Description:                        |
    | You create three glowing darts of   |
    | magical force. Each dart hits a     |
    | creature of your choice that you can| 
    | see within range. A dart deals 1d4  |
    | + 1 force damage to its target. The |
    | darts all strike simultaneously and | 
    | you can direct them to hit one      |
    | creature or several.                |
    | At Higher Levels. When you cast this|
    | spell using a spell slot of 2nd     |
    | level or higher, the spell creates  |
    | one more dart for each slot level   |
    | above 1st.                          |      
    ---------------------------------------


PRIVATE METHODS:

Function stepDifference(String a, String b)
    inputs: two strings, which will be compared based on the step distance formula. 
    A description of the formula can be found here: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/edit-distance-dp-5/

    purpose: this is a life improvement addition for our users. It should be able to account for small 
    misspellings in the main function.

    output: an integer value for the number of deletions, additions, or substitutions that must take place
    to turn input a into input b, or vice versa. It will return the minimum necessary number of any such operations.

    example usage: When given a = "spelll" and b = "spell", this function will evaluate the changes
    needed to turn the longer of the two (a) into the shorter (b). In this case, we require exactly
    one deletion, the third "l" in a. Therefore, the function will return 1. 

NOTE: the following functions will be called from search in order to handle different types of information
sought by our users. These functions are identical in inputs and purpose, except that the structure of the
wiki is different for the distinct types of information, so we will have to scrape differently and return 
the information in a different format. To avoid repetition, the scraping process will be explained in 
the PSEUDOCODE section.

Function classSearch(String searchParams)
    inputs: searchParams, which will be the merged string containing the name of the class being searched.
    Distinct words will be separated by a hyphen.

    purpose: will scrape information from the class wiki and return it in a presentable format.

    logic: this function will use python's request package to call the relevant URL. In this case, 
    the format of this call would be "request('http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/class:' + SEARCHPARAMS). 
    From there, it will scrape the most salient elements to give a quick description. In this case, 
    the most pertinent information is the class table, which contains an overview of the abilities
    and resources for each class. 

    output: a string containing the text representation of the class table.
    NOTE: one of our "nice to haves" will be to implement the wkhtmltopdf package to instead return
    an image of the complete webpage, right in the discord server. 


Function spellSearch(String searchParams)
    inputs: searchParams, which will be the merged string containing the name of the spell being searched.
    Distinct words will be separated by a hyphen.

    purpose: will scrape information from the spell wiki and return it in a presentable format.

    logic: this function will use python's request package to call the relevant URL. In this case, 
    the format of this call would be "request('http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:' + SEARCHPARAMS). 
    From there, it will scrape the most salient elements to give a quick description. In this case, 
    we return the entirety of the spell description, since all of the components are necessary.

    output: a string containing the text representation of the complete spell description.
    NOTE: one of our "nice to haves" will be to implement the wkhtmltopdf package to instead return
    an image of the complete webpage, right in the discord server. 

Function raceSearch(String searchParams)
    inputs: searchParams, which will be the merged string containing the name of the race being searched.
    Distinct words will be separated by a hyphen.

    purpose: will scrape information from the race wiki and return it in a presentable format.

    logic: this function will use python's request package to call the relevant URL. In this case, 
    the format of this call would be "request('http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/race:' + SEARCHPARAMS). 
    From there, it will scrape the most salient elements to give a quick description. In this case, 
    the most pertinent information is the text under the "features" section, which will be presented
    in list format.

    output: a string containing the text representation of the racial features.
    NOTE: one of our "nice to haves" will be to implement the wkhtmltopdf package to instead return
    an image of the complete webpage, right in the discord server. 

Function backgroundSearch(String searchParams)
    inputs: searchParams, which will be the merged string containing the name of the background being searched.
    Distinct words will be separated by a hyphen.

    purpose: will scrape information from the background wiki and return it in a presentable format.

    logic: this function will use python's request package to call the relevant URL. In this case, 
    the format of this call would be "request('http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/background:' + SEARCHPARAMS). 
    From there, it will scrape the most salient elements to give a quick description. In this case, 
    the most pertinent information includes the "proficiencies" section and the "features" section.

    output: a string containing the text representation of the background features listed above.
    NOTE: one of our "nice to haves" will be to implement the wkhtmltopdf package to instead return
    an image of the complete webpage, right in the discord server. 

Function featSearch(String searchParams)
    inputs: searchParams, which will be the merged string containing the name of the feat being searched.
    Distinct words will be separated by a hyphen.

    purpose: will scrape information from the feat wiki and return it in a presentable format.

    logic: this function will use python's request package to call the relevant URL. In this case, 
    the format of this call would be "request('http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/feat:' + SEARCHPARAMS). 
    From there, it will scrape the most salient elements to give a quick description. In this case, 
    we include the entirety of the feat description. 

    output: a string containing the text representation of the page.
    NOTE: one of our "nice to haves" will be to implement the wkhtmltopdf package to instead return
    an image of the complete webpage, right in the discord server. 


INSTANCE VARIABLES AND DATA STRUCTURES

Valid Inputs 
    We will retain a list of the valid inputs for search. This will be stored locally in an array of
    strings, and will allow for iteration through them the step distance function in order to alleviate
    misspellings.

PACKAGES

Requests: a python library to allow for web scraping via URL. We will be able to directly access a page
        using this package

Beautiful Soup: a python library that makes plain HTML more human readable, and allows for the extraction
        of specific elements, such as headers and lists. This package also allows for searching of elements
        by class and id.

Imgkit: a python library that uses wkhtmltopdf infrastructure to convert a webpage into an image, using the URL. 
        This will be useful for our "nice to have" feature of returning the image of the webpage instead of a 
        string representation.


ALGORITHMS

Step Distance:
    This algorithm will help us account for user error such as misspellings, by allowing us to turn simple misspellings
    into the intended word. It measures the minimum number of additions, deletions, and substitutions of characters needed
    to turn String a into an exact copy of String b.

    Purpose: to allow for recovery from small spelling mistakes from our users, 
    leading to more overall robustness of our application. 

    A full description can be found here: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/edit-distance-dp-5/

PSEUDOCODE

Web Scraping:
    Each of the child search functions will use a variant of this techinque, with slight variations for the structure of information
    in each page. Note that the specific identifiers needed will need to come from personal research into the page, since they may 
    change from the time of this writing. 

    #step 1: use the requests package to get a string representation of the html in the page
    URL = "http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/" + search_type + ":" + search_params
    page = request.get(URL)

    #step 2: parse using Beautiful Soup
    soup = BeautifulSoup(page.content, 'html.parser')
    result1 = soup.find(id='spell-description') #this is just an example, you'll have to find the identifier yourself, based on the page
    result2 = soup.find(id='casting-time')

    final = result1 + '\n' + result2 #the line splits will be used by the main function to generate the embed

    return final

